## Configurations for integrate_samples.py

The template for the configuration file can be found <a href="https://github.com/YosefLab/Immune-Aging-Data-Hub/tree/main/data_processing/configs_templates/integrate_samples.configs_file.example.txt">here </a>.

The configuration file is formatted as json with the following fields:

* `"sandbox_mode"` - `"True"` or `"False` to indicate whether running in sandbox mode or not. Always set to `"True"` if you are not an admin. Note that execution will fail and you will be alerted by the script if setting `"sandbox_mode": "False"` without AWS permissions of an admin.
* `"data_owner"` - name or username of the data owner (the person executing integrate_samples.py)
* `"code_path"` - Absolute path to the data processing scripts (if cloning the repository then should end with `"data_processing/scripts"`)
* `"output_destination"` - Absolute path that will be used for saving outputs
* `"s3_access_file"` - absolute path to the aws credentials file (provided by the admin)
* `"output_prefix"` - prefix for the output files
* `"integration_level"` - The level of integration, which determines the output directory on aws; for example, `"tissue"`.
* `"sample_ids"` - A comma-separated (no spaces) list of the sample IDs (`Sample_ID` field in the Google spreadsheet) to integrate
* `"processed_sample_configs_version"` - A comma-separated (no spaces) list of the versions of the processed sample files for the samples specified by `"sample_ids"` - these versions are determined by the configs version that was used to process the samples; the latest version of each processed sample can be found on the S3 bucket under `s3://immuneaging/processed_samples/`
* `"protein_levels_max_sds"` - Proteins and cells with extreme protein values will be excluded. This parameter sets the number of standard deviations beyond which a value will be determined as outlier and therefore filtered out from the data; omit this argument to perform no QC filtering on the protein levels.
* `"n_highly_variable_genes"` - The number of highly variable genes to be used prior to applying dimensionality reduction using PCA and SCVI
* `"highly_variable_genes_flavor"` - The flavor for identifying highly variable genes using `scanpy.pp.highly_variable_genes`
* `"batch_key"` - The batch key for the SCVI and totalVI runs. Defaults to `"batch"`, which effectively uses the library IDs as the batch key. Other options include `"donor_id"`.
* `"scvi_max_epochs"` - The maximum number of epochs to be used when applying SCVI
* `"totalvi_max_epochs"` - The maximum number of epochs to be used when applying totalVI
* `"empirical_protein_background_prior"` - `"True"` or `"False"` to indicate how to set `empirical_protein_background_prior` when applying totalVI (optional; defaults to None).
* `"use_layer_norm"` - Whether to use layer norm in layers when fitting the SCVI and totalVI models; for default behavior set to `"none"` or omit.
* `"use_batch_norm"` - whether to use batch norm when fitting the SCVI and totalVI models; for default behavior set to `"both"` or omit.
* `"early_stopping"` - `"True"` or `"False"` to indicate whether to use early stopping in the model training of scvi and totalVI; for very large data it is advised to use `"True"`, and for default behavior set to `"False"` or omit.
* `"early_stopping_patience"` - Number of validation epochs with no improvement after which training of SCVI and totalVI will be stopped; omit for default behavior.
* `"batch_size"` - Minibatch size to use during training of SCVI and totalVI; omit for default behavior.
* `"limit_train_batches"` - Limit on the number of training batches during one epoch of training of SCVI and totalVI; omit for default behavior.
* `"neighborhood_graph_n_neighbors"` - The number of neighbors to use for computing the neighborhood graph (using `scanpy.pp.neighbors`)
* `"umap_min_dist"` - The `min_dist` argument for computing UMAP (using `scanpy.tl.umap`)
* `"umap_spread"` - The `spread` argument for computing UMAP (using `scanpy.tl.umap`)
* `"umap_n_components"` - The number of UMAP components to compute (using `scanpy.tl.umap`)
* `"celltypist_model_urls"` - One or more URLs for downloading data to be used as reference for cell type annotation using CellTypist.
* `"celltypist_dotplot_min_frac"` - cells that were annotated as cell types that are lowly abundant below this specified fraction will be excluded from dot plots that will be generated by CellTypist to demonstrate the correspondence of the predicted labels to the Leiden clusters.
* `"leiden_resolutions"` - Resolution parameters for Leiden clustering, which will also be used for the majority voting module of CellTypist.
* `"vdj_genes"` - URL of a csv file on AWS that contains a list of VDJ genes to exclude before applying dimensionality reduction (SCVI, TOTALVI, and PCA)
* `"python_env_version"` - The environment name to be used when running process_sample.py
* `"r_setup_version"` - Version of the setup file for additional R setups on top of those defined in `python_env_version`
* `"pipeline_version"` - Version used to run the pipeline. We bump this for every iteration of our data processing pipeline run so that config files are stamped with the new version.